.\"             -*-Nroff-*-
.TH FTVIS 1 "2017-09-27" "filetype-visualizer" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ftvis \- Create a heatmap of byte-to-byte transitions in a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ftvis
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B \fBftvis\fR
creates a output image heatmap from the input file\(aqs byte-to-byte transitions. \
The heatmap can be logarithmic or linear. Using such heatmaps, patterns in
input files can be discerned that are specific to different file types.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display the help.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-in\fR \fIfile\fR
Read the input from \fIfile\fR. If this is not specified, \fIstdin\fR is used instead.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-out\fR \fIfile\fR
Write the output image to \fIfile\fR. If this is not specified, \fIout.ppm\fR is used instead as default.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-upscale\fR \fIscale\fR
Scale each entry of the heatmap to \fIscale\fR x \fIscale\fR pixels.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-cmap\fR
Specify the colormap used for the output image. Following colormaps are available.
.sp
.nf
    RdBu        Red to blue via white.
    heat        Black to white via red, yellow.
    deepsea     Dark blue to light blue.
    gray/grey   Black to white.
.fi  
.sp
Default is \fIheat\fR.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-normalizer\fR \fInorm\fR
Specify which normalizer to use. Following normalizers are available.
.sp
.nf
    log         Logarithmic normalizer.
    lin         Linear normalizer.
.fi
.sp
Default is \fIlog\fR.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-ascii\fR
Only consider ASCII byte values in input file. This will ignore (but warn) about byte values outside the 7\-bit range, and make the heatmap only contain 128x128 bins. Useful for text\-based files, where only a quarter of the heat map\(aqs area is interesting.
.TP
\fB\-\-force\-size\fR
Force a larger output image size than allowed by default.
.TP
\fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-file\-type\fR \fItype\fR
Specify the output file\(aqs type. Following filetypes are available.
.sp
.nf
    ppm         Type-6 24 bit color depth \fIPortable Pixmap\fR images.
    png         24 bit color depth \fIPortable Network Graphics\fR.
.fi
.sp
Default is \fIppm\fR.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-margin\fR \fIspec\fR
Specify a margin around the output image. The margin\(aqs \fIspec\fR can have the following formats.
.sp
.nf
    val         Value to be used for all four margins.
    x,y         Value to be used for left and right, second value to be used for top and bottom.
    l,r,t,b     Values for left, right, top, bottom.
.fi
.sp
Default is no margin.
.TP
\fB\-\-margin\-color\fR \fIcolor\fR
Specify a color for the margin, as 3 byte hexadecimal number. Default is black (000000).
.PD
.PD
.SH BUGS
None for now.
.TP
Please send bug reports to
.UR max@mumintroll.org
.UE
